Documentation of Process to Upgrade AMI for AWS Deployment (#7680)
chef/automate: components/docs-chef-io/content/automate/ha_upgrade_introduction.md

   chef-automate upgrade run --airgap-bundle latest.aib --auto-approve --workspace-upgrade no
  ```

{{< note >}}

>   AMI Upgrade is only for AWS deployment ,as in Onpremise Deployment all the resources are managed by customers its self.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  AMI Upgrade is only for AWS deployment, as in On-Premise Deployment all the resources are managed by the customers themselves.  
```

{{< /note >}}

## AMI Upgrade Setup For AWS Deployment

### Requirements

1. Two identical clusters located in same/different AWS regions.
1. Amazon S3 access in both regions for Application backup.

In the above approach, there will be two identical clusters

- Primary Cluster (or Production Cluster)
- Secondary Cluster (Having upgraded AMI)

{{< note >}}

>   The AWS deployment should be configured with S3.  

Reviewer: Add more details to this note. 
1. Which S3 bucket should be configured to the new (upgraded) cluster setup
2. Now with [MADROX-427](https://chefio.atlassian.net/browse/MADROX-427), user can directly mention existing bucket name in config.toml

Author: Done

{{< /note >}}

### Steps to set up the AMI Upgraded Cluster

> 1. Deploy the Primary cluster following the deployment instructions by [clicking here](/automate/ha_aws_deploy_steps/#deployment).

Reviewer: The assumption here is the user will already have a Primary setup (in case of an AMI upgrade)

Should we use the terminology `Primary/Secondary cluster`?

Author: As Discussed ,used Primary and New cluster

1. Deploy the Secondary cluster into a same/different data center/region using the same steps as the Primary cluster

1. Do the backup configuration only when you have not provided the (backup information) configuration at the time of deployment. Refer backup section for [object storage](/automate/ha_backup_restore_aws_s3/).

    {{< note >}}
     During the deployment for the Primary and Secondary clusters, use the same S3 bucket name.
    {{< /note >}}

1. On Primary Cluster

    - Take a backup of Primary cluster from bastion by running below command:

    ```sh
    chef-automate backup create --no-progress > /var/log/automate-backups.log
    ```

    - Create a bootstrap bundle; this bundle captures any local credentials or secrets that aren't persisted to the database. To create the bootstrap bundle, run the following command in one of the Automate nodes:

    ```sh
    chef-automate bootstrap bundle create bootstrap.abb
    ```

    - Copy `bootstrap.abb` to all Automate and Chef Infra frontend nodes in the Secondary cluster.

> 1. On New AMI upgraded Cluster

Reviewer: Either we can use `New Cluster with upgraded AMI` or Secondary Cluster(?)

Author: Done

    - Install `bootstrap.abb` on all the Frontend nodes (Chef-server and Automate nodes) by running the following command:

    ```cmd
    sudo chef-automate bootstrap bundle unpack bootstrap.abb
    ```

    - Run the following command in bastion to get the ID of the backups:

    ```sh
    chef-automate backup list
    ```

>     -On Secondary Cluster Trigger restore command `chef-automate backup restore` on one of the Chef Automate nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -  On Secondary Cluster Trigger restore command `chef-automate backup restore` on one of the Chef Automate nodes.
```

Author: Done

>         - To run the restore command, you need the airgap bundle. Get the Automate HA airgap bundle from the location `/var/tmp/` in Automate instance. For example: `frontend-4.x.y.aib`.

Reviewer: Below this line, the Preview link is showing as code snippets for all the descriptions

Author: Done

        - In case the airgap bundle is not present at `/var/tmp`, it can be copied from the bastion node to the Automate frontend node

        - Run the command at the Automate node of Automate HA cluster to get the applied config:

        ```bash
        sudo chef-automate config show > current_config.toml
        ```

        - Add the OpenSearch credentials to the applied config. If using Chef Managed OpenSearch, add the config below into `current_config.toml` (without any changes).

        ```bash
        [global.v1.external.opensearch.auth.basic_auth]
            username = "admin"
            password = "admin"
        ```

        - In the New AMI Upgraded cluster, use the following sample command to restore the latest backup from any Chef Automate frontend instance.

        ```cmd
        id=$(chef-automate backup list | grep completed | tail -1 | awk '{print $1}')
        sudo chef-automate backup restore <backup-url-to-object-storage>/automate/$id/ --patch-config /path/to/current_config.toml --airgap-bundle /var/tmp/frontend-4.x.y.aib --skip-preflight --s3-access-key "Access_Key"  --s3-secret-key "Secret_Key"
        ```

### Switch to New Upgraded Cluster

> Steps to switch to the New cluster are as follows:

Reviewer: Include steps to re-configure user's DNS to new set of Loadbalances created in the `New cluster with upgraded AMIs`

Author: Done

   chef-automate upgrade run --airgap-bundle latest.aib --auto-approve --workspace-upgrade no
  ```

{{< note >}}

  AMI Upgrade is only for AWS deployment, as in On-Premise Deployment all the resources are managed by the customers themselves.  
{{< /note >}}

## AMI Upgrade Setup For AWS Deployment

### Requirements

1. Two identical clusters located in same/different AWS regions.
1. Amazon S3 access in both regions for Application backup.

In the above approach, there will be two identical clusters

> - Primary Cluster (or Production Cluster)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Primary Cluster
```

   chef-automate upgrade run --airgap-bundle latest.aib --auto-approve --workspace-upgrade no
  ```

{{< note >}}

  AMI Upgrade is only for AWS deployment, as in On-Premise Deployment all the resources are managed by the customers themselves.  

{{< /note >}}

## AMI Upgrade Setup For AWS Deployment

{{< note >}}

>   For AMI upgrade, The **Primary Cluster** is referred as the old cluster which donot have upgraded AMI and the **New Cluster** is referred as the cluster which have upgraded AMI.

Reviewer: I
```suggestion
  In this following section, the old cluster with older AMI Images is referred to as the **Primary Cluster** and the cluster which has upgraded AMI is referred to as the **New Cluster**.
```

Author: Done

{{< /note >}}

{{< note >}}

  The AWS deployment should be configured with S3, Both Primary and New cluster should be configured with same s3 bucket.
  
{{< /note >}}

### Steps to set up the AMI Upgraded Cluster

1. Deploy the New cluster into a same/different region with S3 backup configuration.you can refer [AWS Deployment steps](/automate/ha_aws_deploy_steps/#deployment).

2. Do the backup configuration only when you have not provided the (backup information) configuration at the time of deployment. Refer backup section for [s3 configuration](/automate/ha_backup_restore_aws_s3/#configuration-in-provision-host).

3. On Primary Cluster

    - Take a backup of Primary cluster from bastion by running below command:

    ```sh
    chef-automate backup create --no-progress > /var/log/automate-backups.log
    ```

>     - Create a bootstrap bundle; this bundle captures any local credentials or secrets that aren't persisted to the database. To create the bootstrap bundle, run the following command in one of the Automate nodes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Create a bootstrap bundle, this bundle captures any local credentials or secrets that aren't persisted in the database. To create the bootstrap bundle, run the following command in one of the Automate nodes:
```

    ```sh
    chef-automate bootstrap bundle create bootstrap.abb
    ```

    - Copy `bootstrap.abb` to all Automate and Chef Infra frontend nodes in the New cluster.

4. On New AMI upgraded Cluster

    - Install `bootstrap.abb` on all the Frontend nodes (Chef-server and Automate nodes) by running the following command:

    ```cmd
    sudo chef-automate bootstrap bundle unpack bootstrap.abb
    ```

    - Run the following command in bastion to get the ID of the backups:

    ```sh
    chef-automate backup list
    ```

    - Make sure all the services in New cluster are up and running by running the following command from bastion:

    ```sh
    chef-automate status
    ```

    - On New Cluster Trigger restore command from bastion. 

>         - To run the restore command, you need to add the OpenSearch credentials to the applied config. If using Chef Managed OpenSearch,we need to have automate config.Run the below command in the Chef-Automate node to get the applied config into `current_config.toml`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - For Chef Managed OpenSearch follow the below steps:
```

        ```bash
        sudo chef-automate config show > current_config.toml
        ```

        - Add the below config into `current_config.toml` (without any changes) and copy `current_config.toml` to bastion

        ```bash
        [global.v1.external.opensearch.auth.basic_auth]
            username = "admin"
            password = "admin"
        ```

        - On New cluster, use the following restore command to restore the backup of Primary Cluster from bastion.

        ```cmd
        sudo chef-automate backup restore s3://<s3-bucket-name>/<path-to-backup>/<backup-id>/ --patch-config /path/to/current_config.toml --airgap-bundle /path/to/airgap-bundle --skip-preflight --s3-access-key "Access_Key"  --s3-secret-key "Secret_Key"

        ```

- If you want to reuse the same custom domain used previously, then make sure to update the DNS entry to the Load-Balancer FQDN of the New cluster.

> - Once the restore is successful ,you can destroy the Primary Cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Once the restore is successful you can destroy the Primary Cluster.
```
